Add a checklist appendix to ask key questions. (#170)
IETF-OPSAWG-WG/draft-opsarea-rfc5706bis: draft-ietf-opsawg-rfc5706bis.md

--- back

# Operational Considerations Checklist {#sec-checklist}

This appendix provides a concise checklist of key questions that Protocol Designers should address in the "Operational Considerations" section of their specifications. Each item references the relevant section of this document for detailed guidance.

The decision to incorporate all or part of these items into their work remains with Protocol Designers and WGs themselves.
## Documentation Requirements

* Does the specification include an "Operational Considerations" section? ({{sec-oper-manag-considerations}})
* Is this section placed immediately before the Security Considerations section? ({{sec-placement-sec}})

> * If there are no new considerations, does the section include the appropriate boilerplate with explanation? ({{sec-null-sec}})

Reviewer: Remove "boilerplate with"?

   * What logging is needed for digital forensics? ({{sec-impact-secops}})

* How can correct operation be verified? ({{sec-oper-verify}})
   * What status and health indicators does the protocol provide? ({{sec-oper-verify}})

* How are human-readable messages handled? ({{sec-messages}})
   * Do messages support internationalization with message codes for local language mapping? ({{sec-messages}})

## Management Information

* What needs to be managed? ({{sec-mgmt-consid}})
   * What are the manageable entities (e.g., protocol endpoints, network elements, services)? ({{sec-mgmt-consid}})

* Which standardized management technologies are applicable? ({{sec-mgmt-tech}})

* What essential information is required? ({{sec-interop}}, {{sec-mgmt-info}})
   * What operational, configuration, state, and statistical information is needed? ({{sec-interop}})
   * Is an Information Model needed, especially if multiple Data Model representations are required? ({{sec-interop}})
   * What is manageable, what needs configuration, and what protocol-specific events might occur? ({{sec-mgmt-info}})
   * How are configuration data, operational state, and statistics distinguished? ({{sec-mgmt-info}})

> * If YANG Data Models are defined, what type is appropriate? ({{sec-yang-dm}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If YANG data models are defined, which module type is appropriate (service model, network model, or device model)? ({{sec-yang-dm}})
```

   * Should Device Models, Network Models, or Service Models be specified? ({{sec-yang-dm}})

## Fault Management

* What faults and events should be reported? ({{sec-fm-mgmt}})
   * What essential faults, health indicators, alarms, and events should be exposed? ({{sec-fm-mgmt}})
   * How will fault information be propagated? ({{sec-fm-mgmt}})

> * How is liveness monitored? ({{sec-monitor}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How is liveness monitored in the Protocol? ({{sec-monitor}})
```
